

Disadvantage of using ANN for Image Classification

a) Too much computation
b) Treats local pixels same as pixels far apart
c) Sensitive to location of an object in an image. Ex - If the cat face is in left corner or 
right corner it always belong cat, doesn't matter if it is right or left

CNN look for little feature first and detect feature one by one how


 
Images mention in pixel 
Rescale the image i.e scale down 0 to 1 value

Convolution Operation -
Filter -Responsible to find edge or feature.
When I apply filter 3*3 with image 6*6, perform multiplication and then submision/addition of all value.
Stride jump of value 2 to right(striding)
After ending then stride jump of value 2 to down
n-f+1

Padding - While applying convolution we will not obtain the output dimensions the same to input so we will lose data over borders
We will use when we want to get the same size of output as size of input.
.
n = n+f-1
two types of padding
a) zero padding - It added or append the column or rows with zero
b) try to find the nearest value and put the same.
n+2p - 3 +1


a) It has two parts feature extraction which is responsible to extract feature and second is classification or dense layesr to classify the data.
a) Use the concept of filter. Filters are the feature detector
c) ReLu - It makes model non-linear or brings non-linearity. It takes feature map value and replace negative value with 0 and keep positive value as it is.
d) Pooling layer is used to reduce the size or dimension and generate new feature map. Max pooling takes the window 2 by 2 
 with stride 2 and pick the maximum value 
e) So Max pooling with convulutional operation helps you with position invariant feature detection. 
Doesn't matter where featature are in image it will detect


Benefits of pooling
a) Reduce dimensions and computation
b) Reduce overfitting becuase there are less parameters
c) Model is tolerant towards distortions

Benefits of Convolution
a) Connection sparcity reduce overfitting. It means Not every node are connected with  other node just like in ANN. 
Here we have filter only where we move around feature.
b)Conv + Pooling gives you invariant feature detection
c) Parameter Sharing - When you learn the parameter for filter A then you can apply for an entire image.

Benefits of ReLu
a) Introduce non linearity
b) Speed up training and faster to compute.

CNN by itself doesn't take care of rotation, thickness and scale. For this you can Data Augmentation techniques.

Through Hyperparameters you can identify
a) How many filters you want to have
b) what is the size of each filter

but you can identify the value inside filters. Means from this filter Networks will learn on his own and this is part of training. 
During back propagration it will figure right amount of filter and value of these filter.





